There 3 parts in IELTS Speaking test.
PART 1: INTRODUCTION & INTERVIEW
The first part involves general introduction. Here, the examiner checks he/she has the right person by checking the candidate's name,
origin, and identification. Then, the examiner asks the candidate	questions about familiar topics in life such as home town, family,
study, work, leisure activities, interests, etc.
Part 1 of IELTS Speaking lasts for	minutes and the test takers will be asked
	questions at most. This part of the test focuses on the ability to
communicate opinions and information on everyday topics and common situations by answering a range of questions.
Sample questions:
•	Where are you from?
What do you like most about your city?
How much.time do you usually spend with your friends?
•	 What subjects do you study?
•	Have you ever travelled abroad?
•	PART 2. INDIVIDUAL LONG TURN
Part 2 is the individual long turn. The examiner gives the test takers a	
which asks the test takers to talk about a particular topic, includes points to cover in their talk and instructs the test takers to explain one aspect of the topic. 

Test takers are given	minute to prepare their talk, and are given a pencil
and paper to make notes. The examiner asks the test takers to talk for
	minutes, stops the test takers after 2 minutes, and asks one or two
questions on the same topic.
Sample questions:
Describe a time of the day that you like.
You should say:
what time of day it is?
•	 what you do at that time?
•	 who are you usually with? and explain, why you like it?
This part of the test focuses on the ability to speak at length on a given topic, using appropriate language and organizing ideas coherently. Some common topics are people, places, objects, events in the past, etc.
#	PART 3. DISCUSSION
In Part 3, the examiner and the test takers discuss issues related to the topic in Part 2. Part 3
lasts 	3	 minutes and the candidate will be asked 		
questions. This part of the test focuses on the ability to express and justify opinions and to analyze, discuss and speculate about issues.
Common question types that appear in IELTS speaking part 3 are opinion, evaluation, future, cause and effect, comparison and contrast, past and now, etc.
Sample questions:
Part 2: Describe a singer that you like.
Part 3:
What kinds of music are popular in your country?
What do you think makes a song popular? 
HANDOUT 1: What do you know about the IELTS Speaking test?
1.	The speaking test lasts about	
a.	7-11 minutes
b.	11-14 minutes
c.	14-18 minutes
2.	There are	parts to the test.
a.	3
b.	4
c.	5
3.	In the first part you will be asked questions on	
a.	personal topics
b.	academic subjects
c.	topics in the news
4.	In the next part of the test you will	
a.	choose your own topic to talk about
b.	choose between 2 topics you are given to talk about
c.	be given 1 topic to talk about
5.	In this part, you will have	
a.	no time to prepare
b.	30 seconds to prepare
c.	60 seconds to prepare
6.	You will then talk for a maximum of	
a.	1 minute
b.	2 minutes
c.	3 minutes
7.	In the last part of the test you will	
a.	further discuss the topic from part 2
b.	discuss your reasons for taking IELTS
c.	discuss your plans and ambitions
8.	The speaking test is recorded	
a.	so you can have a copy 
 

When marking the speaking category, examiners use detailed performance descriptors which describe spoken performance at each of the 9 IELTS bands. Your speaking ability will be tested based on following 4 criteria areas:
MISTAKE 1.
Example:
Examiner: What do you find most difficult in your studies?
Bad sample answer:
English.	Good sample answer:
Well, 1 would say, English. It's really hard for me to remember new words and 1 am too shy to speak out in class. It has always been difficult for me to communicate in English while my classmates are doing a lot better.

MISTAKE 2.
You cannot get more than IELTS band 5 if you hesitate for an uncomfortable length of time while speaking (about 5 seconds). If you do not know how to express your ideas in English or 

you don't listen to the questions clearly, don't keep silent. Instead, you can ask the examiners repeat or clarify the questions by saying:
#	MISTAKE 3	
Many candidate attending an IELTS interview are worried very much about making mistakes in their grammar, so they cannot communicate effectively though the examiner expect some mistakes as English is their foreign language and people naturally makes mistakes or errors.
HANDOUT 2: Good and bad answers
Work in pairs or small groups. Look at the answers to typical questions from Part 1 of the Speaking Test. Which answers (a, b or c) are best? Why?
1.	Do you come from a small family or a large family?
a.	Large. There are my parents, me, and my 2 brothers and 2 sisters.
b.	Large.
c.	Large. There's my mother, Anna. She's a teacher. My father, Paul, is an engineer. I have 2 older brothers, Phil and Dave. They're at university. And then my 2 younger sisters, Chris and Helen. They're still at school.
2.	What is the area like where you live?
a.	It's boring. There isn't anything to do. There	are no shops,	or	parks,	or cinemas, or
restaurants, or discos or sports centres.
b.	It's boring.
c.	It's quite boring. There isn't much to do - no shops or cinemas	or anything.
3.	What do you find most difficult about learning	English?
a.	The grammar, especially the tenses. Sometimes I don't know the right one to use. 

b.	The grammar. The tenses are very difficult and I don't know when to use the present perfect or the past tense or when to use the continuous or simple, or when to use 'will'. Very difficult.
c.	The grammar. 

INTRODUCTION
First, the examiner introduces himself / herself, and asks some following questions:
•	My name is John	
•	Thank you	
•	May I	
•	Well, first of all, 	
And the candidate should greet the examiner by using the list of typical expressions of greeting below:
INTERVIEW
In part 1, there are 2 types of questions:
For example:
o What subject do you study?
o Where are you from ?
o How much time do you spend with friends?
For example: 

o Have you travelled a lot in your life? o Do you like watching movies?
#	FREQUENLY - ASKED QUESTIONS IN SPEAKING PART 1
TOPIC: 	
•	What is your job?
•	Where do you work?
•	Why did you choose that job?
•	Is it a popular job in your country?
•	If you had the chance, would you change your job?
TOPIC: 	
•	What do you study?
•	Why did you choose that subject?
•	What was your first day at college like?
•	Do you plan to get a job in the same field as your subject?
TOPIC: 	
•	Did you enjoy your childhood?
•	What is your first memory of your childhood?
•	Di you have a lot of friends when you were a child?
•	What did you enjoy doing as a child?
•	Do you think it is better for children to grow up in the city or in the countryside?
TOPIC: 	
•	When do you usually get up in the morning?
•	Do you usually have the same routine every day?
•	What is your daily routine?
•	Do you ever change your routine?
•	Is your routine the same today as it was when you were a child?
TOPIC: 	
•	Do you like flowers?
•	What's your favourite flower?
•	When was the last time you gave someone flowers?
•	Do any flowers have a special meaning in your country?
 

Exercise 1. Match the examiner's questions with the candidate's response to make a complete conversation. Then, work with your partners to practice this dialogue.
E: Examiner (giâm khào)	C:	Candidate	(thi	sinh)
(The examiner has been well prepared, and the candidate has just come in.)
E	Your answer	C
1. Good morning	1-	a. Sure.
2. I'm John. Can you tell me your full name, please?	2-	b. Good morning.
3. Thank you. How shall 1 call you?	3-	c. Here you are.
4. May 1 see your identification, please?	4-	d. My name is Linh Nguyen.
5. Thank you. Now, first of all, I'd like to ask you some questions about yourself.	5-	e. You can just call me Linh.

Exercise 2. Find the mistakes in these following candidate's answers. Question 1: Do you like reading books?
Candidate: Yes, I do.
Common mistake: 	
Question 2: Where do you usually meet your friends?
Candidate: I don't have much spare time, but I normally meet once or twice a week with friends for meals or sometimes at weekends for small trips. 
Common mistake:
Question 3: Do you prefer to study alone or with others?
Candidate: I prefer study alone because if I study in a group I can't concentrate on my topic and most of the time, I end up gossiping with my group-mates.
Common mistake: 	
Question 4: What was your favorite book or story when you were a child?
Candidate: The first book that I remember really enjoying is Alice in Wonderland. It only takes me a few days to read because I like it so much that I couldn't put it down. Common mistake: 	
Question 5: Are you working at the moment?
Candidate: uh ... no .... I don't work now	but I... plan to apply to .... Oh, sorry .... apply for
some internship positions this summer.
Common mistake: 	
 

Exercise 1. Rearrange the words to make questions. The capital letters and punctuation should help you.
1.	your / How / did / parents / choose / name? / your
2.	name / meaning? / your/ have / any / special / Does
3.	name / unusual / your / or / country? / Is / your / in / common
4.	name, / you? / change / could / If / would / your / you
Exercise 2. Match questions 1-4 to answers A-D below.
A Yes, it does. I think it means "to carry Christ in your heart". It's also the name of the patron saint of travelers - Saint Christopher. My mum gave me a Saint Christopher necklace for good luck when I travelled to Thailand for the first time.
B	I definitely wouldn't want to change my name - I like it. And also, if I changed	it, I
know my Mum would hit the roof! She's a very emotional woman!
C	I'm not sure who gave me my name... I think it was probably my Mum's choice
because she's the only one who calls me "Christopher". Everybody else calls	me
either "Chris" or "Cottee". Cottee's my nickname. I know my older brother James was named after my great-grandfather who was Scottish.
D I think Chris is a pretty common name. I've got quite a few friends called Chris. I don't think it's an unusual name at all.
